# Game for CSC-231
This code serves as the final project for CSC 231 Software
Development. It consists of a game engine that you will use to create
a game through a series of steps.

The engine written by WLC faculty is built on top of the fantastic
game library [SDL](https://www.libsdl.org/) to handle user input and
graphics. The engine provides features to implement a simple 2D
turn-based game, similar to a
[Roguelike](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roguelike) game.

The engine by itself does nothing, but by creating concrete types for
Heros, Monsters, Weapons, and Actions, you will be able to write a fun
game rather quickly.


## Building
The game engine is written in C++ and uses features from the C++17
standard. [CMake](https://cmake.org/) is used to build all components.
and works well with the
[CMakeTools](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.cmake-tools)
extension in VSCode.

To configure it manually, type

```
cd build
cmake ..
```
then build it using
```
cmake --build .
```

Either method generates an executable in the build directory called
`game`. This executable expects to find the settings

## Running
Unlike in MacOS or Linux, Windows requires that the SDL2 and
SDL2_image libraries files be in the same directory as the
executable. Copy the following `dll` files into the `build` folder.

Make sure that your terminal is open in the same folder that contains
`settings.txt` and run `./build/game` on MacOS/Linux and
`.\build\game.exe` on Windows.


# Folder structure
In this directory, there is a `settings.txt` file that contains
general settings for the game, including screen resolutions and zoom
levels, locations of asset files (images of characters and others),
and some properties for the map.

## Engine
The C++ code for the engine is located inside `engine`. Also inside
this folder are prebuilt libraries for `SDL2` and `SDL2_image`. **You
will not need to modify any code within the engine folder** and for
your sanity, please don't.  However, you will need to **read lots of
code within the engine** in order to know how to use it.


## Content
Place all of your code within the folder `content`. CMake will handle
include paths to files within the engine, so you should be able to
just include the name of the file you wish to use, e.g. `#include
"engine.h"`, and it will just work.

## Assets
The engine can load 2D graphical sprites from png images (called a
[spritesheet](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texture_atlas)) using a
simple asset file. The first line of the asset file must be the file
name of the png image.  The rest of the file can contain a list of
named sprites and their locations (x, y, width, height) within the
image file. Optionally, if a sprite is animated the number of frames
in the animation can appear after the location. It is assumed that
frames appear horizontally in the image and are equally-spaced. Here's
the format:

```
image_filename.png

name_of_sprite x y width height
animated_sprite x y width height frames
```

The dungeon was designed by and can be purchased from
[SecretHideout](https://secrethideout.itch.io/rogue-dungeon-tileset-16x16).

The heros, monsters, weapons, and items were created by and can be
purchased from [Robert(0x72)](https://0x72.itch.io/dungeontileset-ii).


